# BIMM143_Project3_Identifying-2-methyl-butanal-enzymes-in-truffle-species
2-methyl-butanal is one of the important volatiles produced by truffles, and has been identified as the principal component of its odor in species such as Tuber melanosporum, T. aestivum, T. indicum, T. rufum, T. brumale, and T. magnatum (Mustafa et al. 2020). It is also known that truffle from different species and regions have differing compositions of volatiles (Diaz et al. 2003, March et al. 2006). For instance, T. melanosporum has higher ester and benzene derivative content than T. aestivum (Diaz et al. 2003). For truffle species that are identified as producing 2-methyl-butanal in Mustafa et al. (2020), the percent content also varies. T. melanosporum is reported to have levels between 8.4-19.13%, T. indicum with 2.0%, and all the other species are reported to have less than 1% of 2-methyl-butanal in their volatile composition.   In annotating the black truffle (T. melanosporum) genome, Islam et al. (2013) identified three enzymes that may be responsible for the production of 2-methyl-butanal. While 2-methyl-butanal has been found as a truffle volatile in multiple studies, the genomes of many truffle species remain largely unexplored and many gene/protein entries remain unannotated. The three genes identified in Islam et al. (2013) can be used as a query to find homologous genes in other Tuber species, and their similarity can be assessed.  #Scientific Hypothesis: Since there are differences in the production of 2-methyl-butanal in different truffle specimen, the sequences would have considerable variety. T. melanosporum has been shown to produce much higher levels of 2-methyl-butanal, so it is expected that its enzyme sequences would be the most divergent from the others.  Here we use a BLAST search with the three enzymes from Islam et al. (2013) as the query sequences to identify possible homologous sequences from various Tuber species. The BLAST results were downloaded as a FASTA file to use for analysis. For each set of results, a Multiple Sequence Alignment was done to print out the alignment, and the results are directly visualized using the ggmsa() function, which colors alignments by amino acid functionality. 
